All right.
So the next property will take a look at.
It's called a line items and if you read this definition here sounds very very similar to the definition
for justified content.
It says it defines how space is distributed between items in Flex container along the Cross access and
that's the key of it.
That's the crux here because just if the content and on line items do the same thing but on a different
axis so a line items works on the cross axis while justified content allows us to specify the spacing
how that space is divided and divvied up and spread along the main axis.
So to put that in visual terms if we take a look our main axis I didn't put it in here but it is going
from left to right.
And in this case our cross axis goes from top to bottom.
So we'll come back and revisit these exact property are the exact values.
But if you notice these three things are these four things are aligned on the main axis in the center
but they're not on the center vertically using the cross axis.
Instead they're at the start of the cross axis.
Here's the opposite using a line item so you can send them to the bottom vertically or we can use stretch
which is something we'll see.
It's actually the default value.
They will take up the entire container.
We can center them vertically as well.
And when I say Center them vertically that's only because our Cross access happens to be up and down.
But if they were reversed then we would be centering it horizontally whatever the cross axis is.
And then there's also this one will take a look at called baseline.
OK.
So these slides are here for us a reference but I'm going to do is just go through them now with our
code.
So if you notice I did I got rid of a lot of the extra properties we had.
All we have is display flex right now.
And if you notice vertically these things go all the way up and down they take up the entire container
and that's because the default value for a line items is stretch.
So if I add that in.
Nothing changes takes up the entire container.
As you can see.
So what I want to do is change it.
So let's change it to flex.
Start and you'll see that they move to the top and only take up a minimum amount of space they need
and all that white space is shoved to the bottom.
Remember our main axis is from left to right.
We didn't touch it or cross axis from top to bottom.
So by aligning it to flex start line items works on the cross axis.
So the start is here.
The end just down here.
So that's the result we get.
So those flex and
all the way down there.
Now one thing I want to do very quickly is show you if I change some of these font sizes so everything
is uniform right now.
But if I change some of the font sizes Let's take box to and make that one font size 200 pixels
and let's do the same thing.
Let's do 150 and then let's do box four.
Make it smaller font size 80 pixels maybe.
And then one more which would be Box 8 font size.
That's two hundred and 25 pixels OK.
So we got some different sizes going on.
Actually I mean make went even smaller.
Let's do a box for font size.
Let's go with 50.
OK.
So the reason I'm doing this is to show you how that space is being distributed even though they're
not the exact same size anymore.
It's pushing everything down to the bottom.
Everything is flush with the end of the cross axis.
So if you change that to start the opposite happens.
Perfect.
There are obviously a couple of other things we could do.
Like center.
And so what that does in this case is center them vertically as you can see.
So if we wanted to center them horizontally as well.
Remember that's going to be using justified content because our main access goes from left to right.
So we could do that with justify content center as well.
That looks kind of cool and it centered vertically and horizontally.
Now there's one more possible value that I'm going to talk about which is something called baseline
and what baseline does is it allows us to actually a line item based off of the baseline of the font
to the text.
So I made a little diagram for this one.
Here we have four different things different sizes.
When we align them with baseline we can draw a perfect line even though I made a little bit crooked
and didn't do the best job here but the idea is that these are in line.
So it's actually very handy if you're trying to find these things that are of different sizes different
fonts.
So I'll show you that change of line items to baseline and you can see all of this font of the text
is aligned pretty cool.
OK.
So if you feel good about that you feel comfortable with how this works.
The lines across the are it allows us to specify the space distribution across the cross axis.
Go ahead move on.
But I will show you how it works when you're working with columns and reversing things and all of that.
So I'm going to change this back to flex start.
And now what I'm going to do is change our flex direction to column and.
And to make this more manageable.
I'll comment some of these out just so that we don't have to keep scrolling to see everything.
Let's work with maybe four of them and well our font sizes are fine for now.
I'll just zoom out to show it all to you.
OK.
So now remember our main axis goes from top to bottom and our cross axis goes from left to right.
So the reason they're centered vertically from top to bottom is that we have justified content centering.
So if I comment that out now they're up in the top left corner so we could change has to be flex and
and you'll see they move all the way to the right side.
OK.
So we also have center as we've seen and they're aligned in the center horizontally and if we go back
here change just if I contact to center now it's aligned horizontally and vertically but they're in
a column this time.
OK.
So the other thing that we can do of course is talk about rapping.
So if I add in Flex wrap colon wrap nothing happens right away.
And that's because there's nothing to wrap.
So it's uncomment all this stuff that we commented out.
Now we have two columns different sizes different fonts but they are centered.
We'll learn how to control the space between them by the way just a little bit.
But for now we don't have control over that.
So rather than doing a line item center we can do a flex.
And in this case.
OK.
Or flex.
Start.
You can see it hopefully right now you get the picture what's happening is that when we work with a
column that's wrapping our main axis from top to bottom cross axis from left to right.
And what we're controlling right now is this left to right cross axis.
So by doing Flex start everything starts over here.
If I change it back to center we have it centered across the cross axis and I'm really hitting that
a lot.
It's probably driving me crazy but it's important.
And if you don't see that if you don't visualize that main axis the cross axis it can be really hard
to understand what the heck is going on.
Where's that space coming from.
OK.
So that wraps it up.
Next we're going to see a similarly named property that allows us to control the space between rows
or columns in this case.